This is our seventh video update since the start of the pandemic.
This one is about a very special topic, you precious young ones.
How are you doing?
We want to commend you for being active in the ministry.
Not only that, but attending meetings and reading the Bible.
Many of you have even got baptized during the pandemic.
We're so proud of you.
But we're also concerned about you.
We've heard that many of you are struggling with only seeing your friends on a screen and not in person.
Some of you are dealing with a lack of structure in your life.
And for many of you, even school is different now.
We know this must be a hard time for you.
You're not alone.
Many young ones are facing the same challenges.
As you watch this video, see if you can relate to how these young ones feel.
Sometimes I struggle with the negative attitude
making that coronavirus will never end.
My normal routine has completely changed.
It's a very unusual situation.
At first, I was kind of just sitting around all day, being lazy, wishing I could hang out with my friends like I used to.
I would stay up late and sleep in, and I was losing track of time.
Now being able to access each of my friends has been a real talent.
Now that I'm spending more time with my family, and I'm much more likely to get irritated quickly.
Kids my age are always anxious when their parents go to work.
They keep thinking, are they going to get infected?
One of my biggest concerns was that I would infect my family, especially my grandparents.
When homeschooling started, I found it very difficult to study all on my own.
I felt overwhelmed and ended up not being able to do anything.
I struggled with telephone witnessing because I was afraid of the reaction I would get from people.
Phone witnessing is a lot scarier than letter writing for me.
My timing for me is actually going down.
This made me feel really sad.
When we were told that we could no longer attend meetings as usual,
it was like someone said, you may not see your family.
I've really missed being able to hug my brothers and sisters and friends from the congregation.
Did some of those comments hit home with you and your family?
Why don't you pause this video and think about it or talk about it with your family?
For example, which of those challenges did you identify with the most?
We hope you had a good chat about the challenges you're dealing with.
We feel for you, Jehovah does too.
He knows this is tough and has promised to help us through difficult times.
Let's read what he promised at Isaiah 41-10.
Isaiah 41-10, do not be afraid for I am with you.
Do not be anxious for I am your God.
I will fortify you.
Yes, I will help you.
I will really hold on to you with my right hand of righteousness.
Did you catch that?
Jehovah has got you by the hand.
And he's not going to let go during this pandemic.
He can give you the strengths you need to control your thinking
and to make the best of your circumstances.
In this next video, listen to what's helping other young people to deal with these challenges.
For those having a tough time, I would encourage them to not look back at what they can't do
but look at the new opportunities they have now.
Making a plan helped me to be organized in my daily life.
I made it to do list, for example, which was extremely helpful.
I decided I would study not because my parents told me to,
but to be able to serve Jehovah.
That boosted my morale.
If I am frustrated or bored, doing something creative helps.
Having creative outlets helped me to realize that I don't need to be with my friends all the time.
So I started painting, sewing, learning a new language, a new instrument,
and cooking and baking a lot more.
Arguments with my brother, they happen.
But when we deliver food or do good for others, we both feel good about it and we bond more.
Talk to your parents because the more you keep something inside, the worse you're going to feel.
Do not be afraid to talk about your feelings with someone else.
It's not a weakness, but a sign of strength.
I'm thinking about what to do.
Whatever feelings you have, even if sometimes you don't understand them yourself,
pour them out to Jehovah, he will always help at the right time.
I talked to my parents.
They gave me some practical suggestions on how I could spend more time in the ministry,
such as later writing and sitting in on other people's judges.
I was able to talk to a friend at school about Jehovah.
She joined one of our Zoom meetings and even gave a comment during the watchtower study,
which I was really happy about.
During this pandemic, a lot of things have changed on this earth, but we don't have to be afraid.
We can succeed and we will be able to enjoy that beautiful life and paradise.
Those young ones said that might help you.
Which solutions do you think could work for you?
Go ahead and pause this video and think about it or talk about it with your family.
We'll give you a moment now.
Did you come up with any good ideas?
I'm sure you did.
One of the keys to coping with this pandemic is doing what it says at Philippians 1-10.
There we read, make sure of the more important things.
What are some of those more important things?
The basics, the Bible reading, prayer, field service, and of course family worship.
How about a personal study? That's important too.
The young people's textbooks are a great place to find topics that may be affecting you right now.
Some young ones have started reading life stories.
One young sister reads a different one every day.
It's like traveling the globe and hearing firsthand how others have dealt with challenges.
You can find those articles on Watchtower Online Library.
Just type in life stories.
Here's something else to think about.
What practical steps can we take when feeling alone or lonely?
Remember what Proverbs 181 says? Let's read it.
Whoever isolates himself, that is, keeps to himself, rejects all practical wisdom.
If you're feeling alone, it's practical wisdom to reach out to others.
You may find that some good conversation or laughter with your friends from the congregation
even over the phone is just what the doctor ordered.
Another way we can show practical wisdom is by learning from the good examples of other young ones.
You know some young people are in prison for their faith. Others are awaiting trial.
What helps them to cope? You'll find out in this interview with sister Daria
Dilova from Russia. When she was just 18, her home was rated,
and the government started a criminal investigation against her and her mom.
They rated our home on August 1, 2018. My feelings on the time probably both fear and shock.
They told my mom that I needed to be rescued from the mire.
Otherwise, I would have no future, no job, no family, nothing.
They opened a criminal case against me and I was found guilty.
Mom was given a two-year conditional sentence and I received one year.
After a short time, they started another criminal case against me and now we scored proceedings
are ongoing. I was afraid they would send my mom and me to prison.
So, to somehow a lady fear, I tried to spend more time in personal study.
That way, even if they did imprison me, I would have more to meditate on.
Second Chronicles chapter 20 verse 17 encouraged me. It says,
take your position, stand still and see the salvation of Jehovah in your behalf.
That means not just entrusting Jehovah with your problems,
but it also means waiting for him to act.
At the convention that took place shortly before we were rated,
it was an interesting point made about how humans are actually 80% of water.
So, when they took me into the interrogation room, I sat down and looked at the interrogator.
And in my mind, I drew a dotted line and filled him up 80% with water.
And when he started saying things like,
Dasha, you've got no future.
Always so was him feeling out with water.
In short, his threats didn't bother me.
Because I felt Jehovah's support during those trials,
I'm no longer afraid to face new ones.
I'm sure that Jehovah will support me.
He scared me not to come in a way that I expect,
but I know that it will always be in a way that glorifies him.
And that's a guarantee that everything will be okay for me.
Isn't it encouraging to see how Daria has kept her integrity and defended her faith?
Well, I've enjoyed talking to you young ones,
but I'd like to talk to the rest of the family for a moment,
since this pandemic has brought challenges to them too.
Parents, many of you have been busier than ever,
supporting your children with their remote schooling while also working and maintaining
your homes and keeping up with your schedule of theocratic activities.
You're trying to juggle at all.
We love you for it, Jehovah does too.
What's going to help us all get through?
This is a good spiritual routine.
Parents, we commend you for keeping family worship regular.
From time to time, can you include to some extended family members,
our friends, by video conference, or by telephone?
They'll love that also, and so will you.
It warms our hearts to see all that you young ones are doing to stay close to Jehovah during
this time. In spite of all that's going on, you're continuing to grow spiritually.
We're very proud of you, and you can be sure that Jehovah is proud of you too.
We want to extend the warm love of the governing body to every one of you.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is J. W. Broadcaste.